docs(migration): add record-stream-to-block-stream migration guide (#2734) (#2933)
hiero-ledger/hiero-block-node: docs/block-node/record-stream-to-block-stream-migration.md

## Key terms

<dl>
<dt>Record Stream</dt>
<dd>The legacy output format of a Hiero consensus node. A record stream is published as a sequence of files - record files (<code>.rcd</code>), signature files (<code>.rcd.sig</code>), sidecar files, and event stream files - to publicly accessible cloud storage. Mirror Nodes download these files from cloud buckets to ingest network data.</dd>

<dt>Block Stream</dt>
<dd>The replacement output format defined in <a href="https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1056">HIP-1056</a>. A block stream is a single ordered feed of <code>BlockItem</code> messages - block header, signed transactions, transaction results, transaction outputs, trace data, state changes, and a block proof - delivered over gRPC by Block Nodes.</dd>

<dt>Cutover Boundary</dt>

> <dd>The point in the network's release timeline at which the consensus network stops producing record streams and starts producing block streams. Defined in <a href="https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1193">HIP-1193</a>; tied to a specific HAPI version configured on the Mirror Node (<code>0.76.0</code> by default in current Mirror Node releases).</dd>

Reviewer: Not sure if you're referring to the CN or the MN here. Assumign both

```suggestion
<dd>The point in the network's release timeline at which the consensus network stops producing record streams and starts producing block streams. Defined in <a href="https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1193">HIP-1193</a>; tied to a specific HAPI version configured on the Consensus Node (<code>0.77.0</code> and supported by  Mirror Node releases <code>0.1551.1</code>).</dd>
```

Reviewer: @deshmukhpranali can you confirm with Xin.
Not sure if you're saying the MN is configured to watch for a specific HAPI version to support the cutover.
In which case here are you saying 0.76 to highlight when TSS is enabled or 0.77 when blocks will actually be signed with TSS?

Reviewer 2: Agree. The MN config `cutover.hapiVersion` is one version before the CN final cutover version. The strict definition of `cutover.hapiVersion` is the version at which MN should try to run the auto cutover logic.

I also don't think mentioning what's configured in MN adds value to this section, looks like it adds confusion instead. So I'd suggest the following:

```suggestion
<dd>The point in the network's release timeline at which the consensus network stops producing record streams and starts producing block streams. Defined in <a href="https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1193">HIP-1193</a>; tied to Consensus Node release <code>0.77.0</code>.

<dt>Wrapped Record Block (WRB)</dt>
<dd>A block-stream-format wrapper around a historical record file. Each WRB embeds the original record stream contents in a <code>BlockItem</code>, adds a block header and footer, and produces a block proof derived from the original per-node RSA signatures. WRBs make pre-cutover history accessible through the post-cutover block-stream API without losing cryptographic provenance. The mechanism is specified in HIP-1427 (draft).</dd>

<dt>Jumpstart Data</dt>

> <dd>A small set of root hashes and a block number that a consensus node uses, during the release that activates block-stream production, to begin its first block stream from the correct chain position. Defined in <a href="./Cutover-Process.md">Cutover-Process.md</a>.</dd>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<dd>A small set of root hashes and a block number that a consensus node uses, during the release that activates record file hashing and wrapping to support future block-stream production. Defined in <a href="./Cutover-Process.md">Cutover-Process.md</a>.</dd>
```

Reviewer 3: Should we note that this jumpstart is also necessary for WRB production?
i.e.
`record file hashing and wrapping to enable "WRB" production and prepare for future block-stream production`

---

## What changes for a Mirror Node

The shift is in the source. A Mirror Node ingests the same logical content - transactions, results, sidecar trace data, signatures, state - but the transport, encoding, and verification mechanism all change.

|     Dimension      |          Before cutover (record stream)          |                                   After cutover (block stream)                                   |
|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Transport          | Poll cloud-storage buckets (GCS / S3)            | Subscribe to one or more Block Nodes over gRPC                                                   |
| Encoding           | Record file (`.rcd`) + sidecar + signature files | `BlockItem` messages in a single stream                                                          |

> | Verification       | Per-node RSA signatures, majority verification   | Single TSS aggregated signature per block, verified against the network's Ledger ID              |

Reviewer 3: The WRAPS Verification key is also required.
That key is not network specific, but is the same for nearly all Hiero networks.

State change data does not appear above because it has no record-stream equivalent - it is new in the block stream and listed in the next section.

---

## What is new in block streams

Items present in the block stream that had no record-stream counterpart:

- **State changes per block** - every block carries the state deltas produced by the round of consensus that built it, as `StateChanges` block items. Consumers can rebuild state in step with the network without replaying transactions from genesis.
- **Block Proof** - a single self-contained cryptographic proof for each block, signed with a TSS aggregated signature ([HIP-1200](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1200)). One signature replaces the per-node RSA signatures the record stream used.

> - **Per-block merkle tree signed by the Block Proof** - each block is structured as a merkle tree whose root is signed by the TSS aggregated signature carried in `BlockProof`, enabling per-item inclusion proofs ([HIP-1056](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1056) §"Block Stream Merkle Tree").

Reviewer 3: The referenced paragraph does not appear to exist in HIP-1056.
Would it be better to refer to [HIP-1424](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1424#section-14), which is entirely dedicated to describing the Merkle design?

```suggestion
- **Per-block merkle tree signed by the Block Proof** - each block is structured as a merkle tree whose root is signed by the TSS aggregated signature carried in `BlockProof`, enabling per-item inclusion proofs ([HIP-1424](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-1424#section-14)).
```
